# operator_overload_c
Overload operators for a basic calculator.


Background
Tools such as lex (or flex) can be used to automatically generate a scanner (matcher) for a given language. The scanner generated by lex partitions the input into lexemes as per the specification provided to lex. This specification describes the lexical structure of a grammar. For some applications, nothing more is needed than a specification of the lexical structure of a grammar. However, it is usually the case that an application needs to recognize sequences of lexemes and perform specific actions based upon these sequences. Such applications require knowledge regarding the phrase structure of the grammar that generates the language. 
Tools such as yacc (or bison) can generate a parser that recognizes valid strings in given language generated by an input grammar. Thus, yacc is referred to as a parser generator. The name yacc is an acronym for Yet Another Compiler Compiler. A compiler compiler is a tool that is used to build compilers. Yacc is a bottom-up type parser. The input to the parser generated by yacc is almost always the lexemes that are produced by the scanner generated by lex. In fact, lex and yacc are so frequently used together that lots of people forget that they can be used independently. Yacc takes as input a grammar that you specify and generates a parser that recognizes valid “sentences” in that grammar. 
The specification for yacc is provided in a file that by convention has .y as its extension. The structure of the file containing the specification for yacc is very similar to the structure of the file containing the specification for lex. This is because the file structure of lex was patterned after the file structure of yacc. The general format for a yacc specification is: 
declarations 
%% 
rules 
%% 
program segments 
The declarations and program segments sections may be empty. The declarations section contains declarations of the tokens used in the grammar, the types of values used by the parser, and other miscellany. The declarations section may also contain a literal block of C code (contained in %{    %} just like in a lex specification) that is copied into the top of the generated parser. The rules section contains the productions of the grammar for which yacc will generate a parser. The productions in this section are presented in a form similar to BNF. The program segments section contains C code that is copied verbatim into the generated parser toward the end of the file. 
As is the case with lex, when you use yacc the output is a file containing code in the C programming language. The file that yacc generates is named y.tab.c by default. You can also use yacc to generate a header file containing declarations and symbol type definitions that are used by both lex and yacc by specifying the -d option when invoking yacc.


• Makefile
– This is the file that is used to build the project. You can build the project by just typing make on the command line.
• calc.l
– This file contains the lex specification for the calculator project.
• calc.y
– This file contains the yacc specification for the calculator project.
• input.txt
– This file contains list of mathematical function that you are going to test your calculator.



USAGE

1.	First you should install these programs: gcc, make, flex, bison. (flex is a lexical analysis tool, bison is a kind of yacc tool for parser generator). For installation, you can use the following command in Ubuntu:
sudo apt-get install gcc make flex bison

2. Go into project folder and run make command. make will compile your source codes according to the rules in Makefile.
make

3. to test your program:
Make test file=input1.txt
